---
layout: default
title: About me
nav_order: 2
---
# Yinghao Gao

Email: yinghaogo@outlook.com

# Education Background
## **Harbin Institute of Technology**, Shenzhen, China

Master student in Mechanical Engineering    [Sep 2019 – Jun 2022]

State key laboratory of robotic technology and system
## **KTH Royal Institute of Technology**, Stockholm, Sweden

Exchange study  [Jan 2018 – Jun 2018]

Awarded a Scholarship by China Scholarship Council (CSC)

Taking graduate courses: motion control, machine learning, computer
vision

## **Dalian University of Technology**, Dalian, China

Bachelor of Engineering, Process Equipment and Control Engineering  [Sep 2015 – Jun 2019]

Graduated as the **top one** of the department and obtained **Excellent Graduate Award of the Province**

Bachelor thesis: Computational Fluid Dynamics Based on 3D
Reconstruction of Objects

# Research experience
## A High Speed 7 DoF Cable-driven Robotic Arm
*At Robotics X, Technology and Engineering Group (TEG), Tencent*

The project is to build a dual-arm robot that can do throw-and-catch manipulation. Each arm is a high-speed 7 degree of freedom (DoF) cable-driven manipulators. 
As an intern, I engage in the structure design of its wrist joint (3 DoF). And I am responsible for the motion control of the robot. I established communication between Elmo servo drives and PC through EtherCAT. I combined Simple Open EtherCAT Master (SOEM) and Robot Operating System (ROS), and we therefore can control the robot on ROS for upper-level planning. In addition to the feedback from encoders on motors, I parsed the data of encoders on robot joints for close loop position control on PC. And I implemented robot trajectory planning in joint space. 

## The Cooperation and Control of Multiple Manipulators
This project aims to improve the productivity of large-scale products by multi-robot cooperation.
The project focuses on the production of a Z-shape table legs composed of three tubes. Three robots cooperate in three processes of the table leg production: welding, polishing, and spray painting. I am responsible for the polishing process, which involves trajectory planning and force control. I proposed a force control method that uses the trajectory information, which can regulate the contact force between the end-effector and the objects. I also planned polishing trajectory on a freeform workpiece based on 3D camera. The force control method and trajectory planning are combined on polishing a spherical workpiece. My current focus is on the coordination of three robots.

## Optimization of the Machining Performance of a Redundant Robot Milling System

## Theory and Method for Design of Large Deployable Mechanisms in Space

## Design of a Rigid-Flexible Coupling Gripper Based on Waterbomb Origami Mechanism

## Computational Fluid Dynamics Based on 3D Reconstruction of Objects
*At Dalian University of Technology*    [Dec 2018 - Jun 2019]

The project aims to provide digital twins that can reflect the fluid field around real objects. I used active stereo 3D vision for the reconstruction of testing objects. The CAD models of testing objects can be obtained after postprocessing on their meshes. Then I conduct computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations using the CAD models.

On the other hand, I built a small wind tunnel system for wind tunnel testing of objects. The flow structures were quantitively measured by particle image velocimetry (PIV) imaging techniques. The flow structures in the CFD simulation and in the wind tunnel testing are similar, which justifies
the reconstruction-to-simulation method.

## Robot Teleoperation Controlled by Human Body Motions
*At Intelligent Robot Laboratory, Dalian University of Technology*

# Teaching experience
*Whittle School and Studios, Shenzhen, China*

I was the studio teacher of Creating Games and Animations, Autumn 2020. This is a hands-on,
project-focused course that brings students STEM education. I was the teacher of a class of 16 2nd-
3rd grade students, teaching them scratch, a GUI-based programming language. I developed ten
lessons that cover basic programming concepts using scratch. In the final project, students divided
into groups to develop a game using scratch and give a demonstration of their game.

# Publications
